---
layout: single
category: contest
tag: atcoder
title: AtCoder Beginner Contest 125
---

[AtCoder Beginner Contest 125](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc125)

# Source codes

- [My submissions (AtCoder)](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc125/submissions?f.User=kazunetakahashi)
- [My source codes (GitHub)](https://github.com/kazunetakahashi/atcoder/tree/master/2020/0207_ABC125)

# Solutions

## [A - Biscuit Generator](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc125/tasks/abc125_a)

Flush $BT / A$.

## [B - Resale](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc125/tasks/abc125_b)

Assume $0$-indexed. For $i \in N$, if $V _ i > C _ i$, we should take this gem and get $V _ i - C _ i$ value in total; otherwise we should not. Therefore the answer is
\\[
  \sum _ {i \in N} \max(0, V _ i - C _ i).
\\]

## [C - GCD on Blackboard](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc125/tasks/abc125_c)

Assume $0$-indexed.

If we choose $A _ i$ to change, the answer is
\\[
  G _ i = \gcd \\{ A _ j \in \mathbb{N} \mid j \in N \land j \neq i \\} \tag{C.1}
\\]

Then, how can we calculate this quickly? We can rearrange (C.1) as follows.
\\[
  G _ i = \gcd \left( \gcd \\{ A _ j \mid j < i \\}, \gcd \\{ A _ j \mid j > i \\} \right).
\\]
Let
\\[
  L[i] = \gcd \\{ A _ j \mid j < i \\}, \ \ \ \ R[i] = \gcd \\{ A _ j \mid j > i \\}.
\\]
We can calculate this by recursion as follows. Let $L[1] = A _ 0$. We execute the following for $i = 1, \dots, N - 2$.
\\[
  L[i + 1] = \gcd(L[i], A _ i).
\\]
Let $R[N - 2] = A _ {N - 1}$. We execute the following for $i = N - 2, N - 3, \dots, 2$.
\\[
  R[i - 1] = \gcd(R[i], A _ i).
\\]

To calculate $G _ i$'s, first we determine $G _ 0 = R[0]$ and $G _ {N - 1} = L[N - 1]$. Then, we calculate $G _ i = \gcd(R[i], L[i])$ for $i = 1, \dots, N - 2$. The answer is $\max _ {i \in N} G _ i$.

## [D - Flipping Signs](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc125/tasks/abc125_d)

Assume $0$-indexed.

### Observation

Let $s _ i$ be the sign of the resulting coefficient corresponding to $A _ i$. First, we show the following lemma.

> **Lemma F.1**: Let $k \in N$. Assume that we are given $\\{ s _ i \\}$. Then, there exists a manipulations that gives $\\{ s _ i \\}$ for all $i \in N$ **except** $k$.

Proof. For each $i$, we can choose whether we do the manipulation or not. The order of $i$ is,

- $i = 0, 1, 2, \dots, k - 1$, and
- $i = N - 1, N - 2, \dots, k + 1$.

We have $\\{ s _ i \\}$ as the result except $k$.

Then, what $s _ k$ will be? This is determined by the following lemma.

> **Lemma F.2**: The number of the negatives in $\\{ s _ i \\}$ is even.

Proof. Each manipulation changes the number of the negatives $\pm 2$ or $0$. Therefore the parity will be preserved.

### Solution

We can apply greedy method almost perfectly. Then the desired maximum would be
\\[
  S = \sum _ {i \in N} \lvert A _ i \rvert.
\\]
We count the number of zeros and negatives. If there exists a zero, $S$ is achieved. If the number of negatives is even, $S$ is achieved. Otherwise, $S$ will not be achieved by Lemma F.1 and F.2. We have to sacrifice one element. It should be the absolutely minimum element. Thus the answer in this case is
\\[
  S - 2 \min _ {i \in N} \lvert A _ i \rvert.
\\]

# Others
