---
layout: single
category: contest
tag: atcoder
title: AtCoder Beginner Contest 139
---

[AtCoder Beginner Contest 139](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc139)

- Review: 2020-06-02

# Source codes

- [My submissions (AtCoder)](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc139/submissions?f.User=kazunetakahashi)
- [My source codes (GitHub)](https://github.com/kazunetakahashi/atcoder/tree/master/2019/0901_ABC139)

# Solutions

## [A - Tenki](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc139/tasks/abc139_a)

Just compare $S$ and $T$.

## [B - Power Socket](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc139/tasks/abc139_b)

First, we have $1$ sockets. We add a power strip to gain $A - 1$ sockets. Therefore we continue to add power strip $t$ times to gain $t(A - 1) + 1$. Then, we have
\\[
  t (A - 1) + 1 \geq B.
\\]
The answer is $((B - 1) + (A - 1) - 1)/(A - 1)$.

## [C - Lower](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc139/tasks/abc139_c)

We reverse the order of $H$. We define a $DP$ table as follows.

> $DP[i] = $ the length of the increasing sequence that starts the $i$-th element to the right.

The initial state: $DP[i] = 0$ for $i = 0, \dots, H - 1$. The answer: $\max _ i DP[i]$. The transition: For $i = 1, \dots, H - 1$,
\\[
  DP[i] =
  \begin{cases}
    DP[i - 1] + 1 & H[i] \geq H[i - 1], \\\
    0 & \text{otherwise}.
  \end{cases}
\\]

## [D - ModSum](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc139/tasks/abc139_d)

### Answer

The answer is $N(N - 1)/2$.

### Reasoning

We assume $1$-indexed. We define $f \colon \mathfrak{S} _ N \to \mathbb{N}$ as follows.
\\[
  f(\sigma) = \sum _ {i = 1} ^ N \sigma(i) \% i.
\\]
Here, we have $(\sigma(i) \text{ mod } i) \leq i - 1$. Then, for $\sigma \in \mathfrak{S} _ N$, it follows that
\\[
  f(\sigma) \leq \sum _ {i = 1} ^ N (i - 1) = \frac{N(N - 1)}{2}.
\\]
Thus we have the upper bound of the answer as the right hand side above. In fact, this bound actually attains by the following permutation.
\\[
  \sigma =
  \begin{pmatrix}
    1 & 2 & 3 & \dots & N \\\
    N & 1 & 2 & \dots & N - 1
  \end{pmatrix}.
\\]

## [E - League](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc139/tasks/abc139_e)

Assume $0$-indexed.

### Answer #1

We can solve this problem by a greedy algorithm as follows.

We hold the information of $A$ by `vector<queue> A;` Player $i$ and player $j$ can be matched if and only if $A[i].front() = j \land A[j].front() = i$. We have to spend one day to match all of these and that's the best way. If there is no matches but there remains competition, the answer is `-1`.

The important thing is time complexity. If you check all players every day, the total time complexity would be $O(N^3)$, which cannot work in this problem. Consider that new matches $(i, j)$ will occur if either $i$ or $j$ would match the day before. So keeping who matched today will reduce time complexity. With this trick, the solution works in $O(N^2)$-time.

### Answer #2

We convert the each matches $(i, j)$ into $\mathbb{N}$-numbered vertexes. Then, the constraints of $A$ will be the order of the vertexes. Let's consider them into edges. Then, the problem becomes as follows. Given this graph $G$, we will flush `-1` if there is a loop. If not, we will flush the maximum length of this DAG $G$. This is just calculated by topological sort and it can be solved by DFS.

To implement topological sort, we take care of the exiting time for each vertex.

```c++
  int dfs(int src)
  {
    if (ans[src] >= 0)
    {
      return ans[src];
    }
    if (ans[src] == -2)
    {
      No();
    }
    ans[src] = -2;
    int res{0};
    for (auto dst : V[src])
    {
      ch_max(res, dfs(dst) + 1);
    }
    return ans[src] = res;
  }
```

## [F - Engines](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc139/tasks/abc139_f)

### Answer

Assume $0$-indexed. Let $V = \\{ v _ 0, v _ 1, \dots, v _ {N - 1} \\} \subset \mathbb{R}^2$. The problem requires that we make $w = \sum _ { i \in {I} } v _ i$ for some $I \subset N$ to attain the maximum of the Euclid norm $\lvert \cdot \rvert$. This problem is equivalent to the following problem.

> Find the pair of $I \subset N$ and $e \in \mathbb{R} ^ 2$ with $\lvert e \rvert = 1$ that attains the maximum of $(w, e)$.

This equivalence can be easily seen because for any $w \in \mathbb{R} ^ 2 \setminus \\{ 0 \\}$ we set $e = w/\lvert w \rvert$ to maximize $(w, e)$ and then it follows that $\lvert w \rvert = (w, e)$.

We have the following equation.
\\[
  (w, e) = \sum _ {i \in I} (v _ i, e).
\\]
This equation tells us how to make $I \subset N$. Fix $e \in \mathbb{R}^2$. Then, for $i \in N$, if $(v _ i, e) > 0$, we take $i$ into $I$; otherwise not.

Therefore, if $w$ attains its maximum norm, there exists $e \in \mathbb{R}^2$ with $\lvert e \rvert = 1$ so that for any $i \in I$, it follows that $(v _ i, e) > 0$ and for any $i \in N \setminus I$, it follows that $(v _ i, e) \leq 0$.

Hence, after we sort $V$ by $\arg$, we only consider some range of $V$. We can try all of them in $O(N ^ 3)$ time or $O(N ^ 2)$ time.

# Others
