---
layout: single
category: contest
tag: atcoder
title: AtCoder Beginner Contest 161
---

[AtCoder Beginner Contest 161](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc161)

# Source codes

- [My submissions (AtCoder)](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc161/submissions?f.User=kazunetakahashi)
- [My source codes (GitHub)](https://github.com/kazunetakahashi/atcoder/tree/master/2020/0622_ABC161)

# Solutions

## [A - ABC Swap](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc161/tasks/abc161_a)

Just `swap` as they indicate us to.

## [B - Popular Vote](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc161/tasks/abc161_b)

Be careful when we calculate "$1 / 4M$of the total number of votes". This should be done by ceiling function and check the condition "less than" that.

## [C - Replacing Integer](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc161/tasks/abc161_c)

We continue to execute this manipulation while $x > K$. Then, the result is $N \% K$. After that, we execute this manipulation to get $N \% K$ and $K - N \% K$. We flush the minimum of that.

## [D - Lunlun Number](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc161/tasks/abc161_d)

We can make a Lunlun numbers by recursion of the tail of the number. If $X$ is a Lunlun number and its tail is $k$, $10X + l$ is also a Lunlun number if $\lvert k - l \rvert \leq 1$.

This manipulation is order-preserving. Thus we can use `queue<int> Q;` to get $K$-th Lunlun number.

## [E - Yutori](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc161/tasks/abc161_e)

Assume $1$-indexed.

### Observation

Suppose that we are bound to work on $i$-th day. We think of $S[1, i - 1]$ and **reversed version of** $S[i + 1, N]$. For each schedules, how can we maximize the working day? Greedy algorithm works. This is because of the following reasons.

- Suppose that there is a schedule which is not greedily made. That is, we have a skipped day. If we take that day, the "refraining from working" term is backed, since the length of that is always $C$. Thus, the greedy algorithm always gives the best schedule.
- The reversed string also works, since the condition that after working for a day we will refrain from working on the subsequent is still valid in the reversed string.

### Solution

We make the following tables. Their length is $N + 2$ with the indexes $0$ and $N + 1$ is sentinels.

> `vector<int>` $X[i] = $ the maximum working days we can make during $S[1, i - 1]$, <br>
> `vector<int>` $Y$: reversed version of $X$ when $S$ is reversed. That is, $Y[i] = $ the maximum working days we can make during $S[i + 1, N]$.

For each $i \in [1, N]$ with $S[i] = $ `o`, Check the sum $X[i - 1] + Y[i + 1]$. However hard we may work, we can work in $X[i - 1] + Y[i + 1]$. Thus, if it is less than $K$, we cannot skip this day. Otherwise, we may skip this day to gain $K$ working days.

## [F - Division or Subtraction](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc161/tasks/abc161_f)

Let $C = 10 ^ 6 + 10$.

### Observation

> **Lemma F.1**: In the original manipulation, divisions cannot come after subtractions.

Proof: Assume to the contrary that a division occurs after a subtraction. That is,
\\[
  x (\text{subtraction}) \mapsto x - K (\text{division}) \mapsto (x - K) / K
\\]
This means that $K$ cannot divide $x$ but $K$ can divide $(x - K)$. This is a contradiction.

> **Lemma F.2**: The recursive application of the original operation is equivalent to the following operation.
>
> - While $K$ divides $N$, replace $N$ with $N / K$. Then, we replace $N$ with $N \% K$.

Proof: The order of the divisions before the subtractions is followed by Lemma F.1. For the latter part, replacing $N$ with $N - K$ while $N \geq K$ result in $N \% K$.

### Solution

We divide the problem into two cases: the case $K < C$ and the case $K \geq C$.

#### The case $K < C$

We can obtain the answer by direct simulation of the manipulation argued in Lemma F.2.

#### The case $K \geq C$

Again we divide this case into two sub-cases.

If $K$ divides $N$, the result $N / K$ is less than $K$ since $\sqrt{N} \leq 10 ^ 6 < C \leq K$. Then, the result is $1$ if and only if $N / K = 1$, i.e., we check whether $N \geq C$; if so, we add $1$ to the answer.

If $K$ cannot divide $N$, then, the result is $N \% K$. If it is $1$, this means that $K$ divides $N - 1$. Since $K > \sqrt{N}$, we try $K = N / i$ with $i = 1, \dots, C - 1$ being a divisor of $N$ to check $K \geq C$ and $K < N$.

# Others

- 2020-06-22

```
A - sample: 3, tle: 2.000, time: 03:48, from_submit: 75:19
B - sample: 3, tle: 2.000, time: 04:57, from_submit: 27:18
C - sample: 3, tle: 2.000, time: 02:48, from_submit: 69:35
D - sample: 4, tle: 2.000, time: 12:29, from_submit: 57:06
E - sample: 4, tle: 2.000, time: 27:48, from_submit: 29:18
F - sample: 3, tle: 2.000, time: 27:18, from_submit: 00:00
```
